LINOXIN
Li*nox"in, n. Etym: [Linoleic + oxygen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A resinous substance obtained as an oxidation product of
linoleic acid. [Written also linoxyn.]

LINSANG
Lin*sang", n. (Zoöl.)

Defn: Any viverrine mammal of the genus Prionodon, inhabiting the
East Indies and Southern Asia. The common East Indian linsang (P.
gracilis) is white, crossed by broad, black bands. The Guinea linsang
(Porana Richardsonii) is brown with black spots.

LINSEED
Lin"seed`, n. Etym: [OE. lin flax + seed. See Linen.] (Bot.)

Defn: The seeds of flax, from which linseed oil is obtained. [Written
also lintseed.] Linseed cake, the solid mass or cake which remains
when oil is expressed.
 -- Linseed meal, linseed cake reduced to powder.
 -- Linseed oil, oil obtained by pressure from flaxseed.

LINSEY
Lin"sey, n. Etym: [See Linen.]

Defn: Linsey-woolsey.

LINSEY-WOOLSEY
Lin"sey-wool"sey, n.

1. Cloth made of linen and wool, mixed.

2. Jargon. [Obs.] Shak.

LINSEY-WOOLSEY
Lin"sey-wool"sey, a.

Defn: Made of linen and wool; hence, of different and unsuitable
parts; mean. Johnson.

LINSTOCK
Lin"stock, n. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. luntstock, D. lonistok; lont lunt +
stok stock, stick. See Link a torch, Lunt, and Stock.]

Defn: A pointed forked staff, shod with iron at the foot, to hold a
lighted match for firing cannon. [Written also lintstock.]

LINT
Lint, n. Etym: [AS. linet flax, hemp, fr. lin flax; or, perh.
borrowed fr. L. linteum a linen cloth, linen, from linteus linen, a.,
fr. lineum flax, lint. See Linen.]

1. Flax.

2. Linen scraped or otherwise made into a soft, downy or fleecy
substance for dressing wounds and sores; also, fine ravelings, down,
fluff, or loose short fibers from yarn or fabrics. Lint doctor
(Calico-printing Mach.), a scraper to remove lint from a printing
cylinder.

LINTEL
Lin"tel, n. Etym: [OE. lintel, F. linteau, LL. lintellus, for
limitellus, a dim. fr. L. limes limit. See Limit.] (Arch.)

Defn: A horizontal member spanning an opening, and carrying the
superincumbent weight by means of its strength in resisting crosswise
fracture.

LINTIE; LINTWHITE
Lin"tie, Lint"white`, n. Etym: [AS. linetwige. See Linnet.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: See Linnet. Tennyson.

LINTSEED
Lint"seed`, n.

Defn: See Linseed.

LINUM
Li"num, n. Etym: [L., flax.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of herbaceous plants including the flax (Linum
usitatissimum).

LION
Li"on, n. Etym: [F. lion, L. leo, -onis, akin to Gr. Chameleon,
Dandelion, Leopard.]

1. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A large carnivorous feline mammal (Felis leo), found in
Southern Asia and in most parts of Africa, distinct varieties
occurring in the different countries. The adult male, in most
varieties, has a thick mane of long shaggy hair that adds to his
apparent size, which is less than that of the largest tigers. The
length, however, is sometimes eleven feet to the base of the tail.
The color is a tawny yellow or yellowish brown; the mane is darker,
and the terminal tuft of the tail is black. In one variety, called
the maneless lion, the male has only a slight mane.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A sign and a constellation; Leo.

3. An object of interest and curiosity, especially a person who is so
regarded; as, he was quite a lion in London at that time.
Such society was far more enjoyable than that of Edinburgh, for here
he was not a lion, but a man. Prof. Wilson.
American lion (Zoöl.), the puma or cougar.
 -- Lion ant (Zoöl.), the ant-lion.
 -- Lion dog (Zoöl.), a fancy dog with a flowing mane, usually
clipped to resemble a lion's mane.
 -- Lion lizard (Zoöl.), the basilisk.
 -- Lion's share, all, or nearly all; the best or largest part; --
from Æsop's fable of the lion hunting in company with certain smaller
beasts, and appropriating to himself all the prey.

LIONCED
Li"onced, a. (Her.)

Defn: Adorned with lions heads; having arms terminating in lions'
heads; -- said of a cross. [Written also leonced.]

LIONCEL
Li"on*cel, n. Etym: [OE., F. lionceau, dim. of lion.] (Her.)

Defn: A small lion, especially one of several borne in the same coat
of arms.

LIONEL
Li"on*el, n. Etym: [OF., dim. of lion.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: The whelp of a lioness; a young lion.

LIONESS
Li"on*ess, n. Etym: [OF. lionesse.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A female lion.

LIONET
Li"on*et, n. Etym: [OF., dim. of lion.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A young or small lion.

LION-HEART
Li"on-heart`, n.

Defn: A very brave person.

LION-HEARTED
Li"on-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Very brave; brave and magnanimous. Sir W. Scott.

LIONHOOD
Li"on*hood, n.

Defn: State of being a lion. Carlyle.

LIONISM
Li"on*ism, n.

Defn: An attracting of attention, as a lion; also, the treating or
regarding as a lion.

LIONIZE
Li"on*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lionized, p. pr. & vb. n. Lionizing
(.]

1. To treat or regard as a lion or object of great interest. J. D.
Forbes.

2. To show the lions or objects of interest to; to conduct about
among objects of interest. Macaulay.

LIONLIKE
Li"on*like`, a.

Defn: Like a lion; brave as a lion.

LIONLY
Li"on*ly, a.

Defn: Like a lion; fierce. [Obs.] Milton.

LION'S EAR
Li"on's ear`. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given in Western South America to certain plants with
shaggy tomentose leaves, as species of Culcitium, and Espeletia.

LION'S FOOT
Li"on's foot`. (Bot.)
(a) A composite plant of the genus Prenanthes, of which several
species are found in the United States.
(b) The edelweiss.

LIONSHIP
Li"on*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a lion.

LION'S LEAF
Li"on's leaf`. (Bot.)

Defn: A South European plant of the genus Leontice (L.
leontopetalum), the tuberous roots of which contain so much alkali
that they are sometimes used as a substitute for soap.

LION'S TAIL
Li"on's tail`. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of labiate plants (Leonurus); -- so called from a
fancied resemblance of its flower spikes to the tuft of a lion's
tail. L. Cardiaca is the common motherwort.

LION'S TOOTH
Li"on's tooth`; pl. Lions' teeth (. (Bot.)

Defn: See Leontodon.

LIP
Lip, n. Etym: [OE. lippe, AS. lippa; akin to D. lip, G. lippe, lefze,
OHG. lefs, Dan. læbe, Sw. läpp, L. labium, labrum. Cf. Labial.]

1. One of the two fleshy folds which surround the orifice of the
mouth in man and many other animals. In man the lips are organs of
speech essential to certain articulations. Hence, by a figure they
denote the mouth, or all the organs of speech, and sometimes speech
itself.
Thine own lips testify against thee. Jeb xv. 6.

2. An edge of an opening; a thin projecting part of anything; a kind
of short open spout; as, the lip of a vessel.

3. The sharp cutting edge on the end of an auger.

4. (Bot.)
(a) One of the two opposite divisions of a labiate corolla.
(b) The odd and peculiar petal in the Orchis family. See
Orchidaceous.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: One of the edges of the aperture of a univalve shell. Lip bit,
a pod auger. See Auger.
 -- Lip comfort, comfort that is given with words only.
 -- Lip comforter, one who comforts with words only.
 -- Lip labor, unfelt or insincere speech; hypocrisy. Bale.
 -- Lip reading, the catching of the words or meaning of one speaking
by watching the motion of his lips without hearing his voice.
Carpenter.
 -- Lip salve, a salve for sore lips.
 -- Lip service, expression by the lips of obedience and devotion
without the performance of acts suitable to such sentiments.
 -- Lip wisdom, wise talk without practice, or unsupported by
experience.
 -- Lip work. (a) Talk. (b) Kissing. [Humorous] B. Jonson.
 -- Lip make a lip, to drop the under lip in sullenness or contempt.
Shak.
 -- To shoot out the lip (Script.), to show contempt by protruding
the lip.

LIP
Lip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Lipping.]

1. To touch with the lips; to put the lips to; hence, to kiss.
The bubble on the wine which breaks Before you lip the glass. Praed.
A hand that kings Have lipped and trembled kissing. Shak.

2. To utter; to speak. [R.] Keats.

LIP
Lip, v. t.

Defn: To clip; to trim. [Obs.] Holland.

LIPAEMIA
Li*pæ"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A condition in which fat occurs in the blood.